Men 8325 review zephyr getting started (#2599)
mendersoftware/mender-docs: 01.Get-started/07.Microcontroller-preview/01.Prepare-an-esp32-s3-with-Zephyr/docs.md

We will build and flash a Zephyr firmware for an ESP32-S3-DevKitC board. By the end of this section, your device will boot and show up as **pending** in your Mender server (hosted Mender), ready to be accepted.

!!! This guide assumes you are using Ubuntu, as it is a well supported workstation environment both for Zephyr and Mender.

## Prerequisites

* **ESP32-S3-DevKitC board** and a USB cable to connect it to your computer.

> * **Mender Artifact tool:** Install the **mender-artifact** tool on your workstation. This is used to create Artifact (.mender) files that contain the software for deployment.  Download and install `mender-artifact` by [following the instructions here](https://docs.mender.io/downloads#mender-artifact).

Reviewer: I guess pre-existing
```suggestion
* **Mender Artifact tool:** Install the **mender-artifact** tool on your workstation. This is used to create Artifact (.mender) files that contain the software for deployment.  Download and install `mender-artifact` by [following the instructions here](../../../12.Downloads/01.Workstation-tools/#mender-artifact).
```

export ARTIFACT_NAME="release-1"
```

These will be passed into the build to configure the device's WiFi connection and authentication with hosted Mender. The example uses these to configure the Zephyr WiFi driver and the Mender Server Tenant Token.

**Choose Mender server:** By default, US Mender server is configured. If you're using EU Mender server, change the project to use it. Open `~/mender-mcu-workspace/mender-mcu-integration/prj.conf` in a text editor. Change the line

```
CONFIG_MENDER_SERVER_HOST_US=y
```

to

```
CONFIG_MENDER_SERVER_HOST_EU=y
```

**Prepare the Espressif firmware blobs:** We will use WiFi, which requires firmware blobs to be prepared. First, install python dependencies needed for `west blobs` to work:

```bash

> pip install -r zephyr/scripts/requirements.txt

Author: Because we use a specific version of zephyr, v.4.0.0 this is a part of zephyr's doc that will not change without our input - no risk of adding too much of zephyr's docs to our document.
Current [zephyr getting started guide](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/develop/getting_started/index.html?target=_blank) linked at the top of this document does not mention zephyr/scripts/requirements, as it was replaced in zephyr 4.1.0 by "west packages".

Reviewer: Is it really necessary for us to specify this requirement at all? It's a part of the Zephyr's getting started guide, so as long as the same environment is sourced (which you added a comment about), then you should have the requirements

Reviewer 2: If we need to install requirements then how about `west zephyr-export` or `west sdk install`?

Author: Since we agreed to point the user to a specific version of Zephyr's getting started, there will be no need to mention the requirements.txt in our doc, as it is present in zephyr's guide version 4.0.0.
I pointed the user to v4.0.0 of zephyr's getting started, and reverted this change.

**Build the firmware** using west. In the same terminal (ensure the environment variables from above are still set), run:

```bash

> west build -b esp32s3_devkitc/esp32s3/procpu --sysbuild mender-mcu-integration -- \

Reviewer 3: I didn't think through it too much then.

But I think it is good to have, as it shows more clearly how to switch boards later, and in case we change the default at some point this won't be affected.

  "-DCONFIG_MENDER_APP_WIFI_SSID=\"${WIFI_SSID}\"" \
  "-DCONFIG_MENDER_APP_WIFI_PSK=\"${WIFI_PASS}\"" \
  "-DCONFIG_MENDER_SERVER_TENANT_TOKEN=\"${TENANT_TOKEN}\"" \
  "-DCONFIG_MENDER_ARTIFACT_NAME=\"${ARTIFACT_NAME}\""
```

!!! First build may take a few minutes as it fetches and compiles Zephyr, MCUboot, and the Mender MCU client.

Let's break down this command:

> * `--sysbuild mender-mcu-integration` tells west to build the project (located in the ~/mender-mcu-integration directory) using [Zephyr's system build](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/build/sysbuild/index.html?target=_blank) (which will compile MCUboot and the app together).

Reviewer 3: it was related to the above change I think; if -b parameter is added then the full line would be "west build -b esp32s3_devkitc/esp32s3/procpu --sysbuild mender-mcu-integration".

To me it makes sense to keep this as-is; we're just talking about --sysbuild here, not the rest of the command.

This will reset the board and upload the bootloader and the application to the correct flash partitions (using the esptool backend for ESP32).

!!! Your system user needs read/write permissions to `/dev/tty*`. Usually this means that your user needs to belong to `dialout` group.

**Monitor the serial output (optional):** You can open a serial monitor to watch the device boot. For ESP32, west provides a monitor integration. Run this in a separate terminal:

```bash
west espressif monitor
```

You should see log output from MCUboot and then the Zephyr application. On first boot, the logs may show the device connecting to WiFi and attempting to authorize with the Mender server (using the provided tenant token). If all goes well, it will log something like `<err> mender: [401] Unauthorized: dev auth: unauthorized`. Those authentication errors are expected at this step as the device is not yet authorized in the Mender Server.

> !!! If the device seems to get stuck while starting after flashing, e.g. while bringing up network, try to disconnect power (USB) and reconnect. A hard power reset is sometimes needed after reflashing.

Reviewer: Is this true? I've never had to to this after flashing :thinking:

Author: As discussed, I will reevaluate this part with my board with different usb cable, power source. I will also check with the two boards I borrowed from the office. I'll let you know the result.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, we can remove the last part I think as well (A hard power reset is sometimes needed after reflashing.). Makes it seem a bit flaky (which it is though).
